Add BigQuery Plugin (#245)
IBM/universal-connectors: filter-plugin/logstash-filter-pubsub-bigquery-guardium/README.md

# BigQuery-Guardium Logstash filter plug-in

> This is a [Logstash](https://github.com/elastic/logstash) filter plug-in for the universal connector that is featured in IBM Security Guardium. It parses a GCP (Google Cloud Platform) event logs into a [Guardium record](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/common/src/main/java/com/ibm/guardium/universalconnector/commons/structures/Record.java) instance (which is a standard structure made out of several parts). The information is then sent over to Guardium. Guardium records include the accessor (the person who tried to access the data), the session, data, and exceptions. If there are no errors, the data contains details about the query "construct". The construct details the main action (verb) and collections (objects) involved.The BigQuery plugin supports only Guardium Data Protection as of now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a [Logstash](https://github.com/elastic/logstash) filter plug-in for the universal connector that is featured in IBM Security Guardium. It parses a GCP (Google Cloud Platform) event logs into a [Guardium record](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/common/src/main/java/com/ibm/guardium/universalconnector/commons/structures/Record.java) instance (which is a standard structure made out of several parts). The information is then sent over to Guardium. Guardium records include the accessor (the person who tried to access the data), the session, data, and exceptions. If there are no errors, the data contains details about the query "construct". The construct details the main action (verb) and collections (objects) involved. As of now, the BigQuery plug-in only supports Guardium Data Protection.
```

### Note
This plug-in contains a runtime dependency of Logstash Google PubSub input plug-in (version ~> 1.2.1, i.e. at least 1.2.1).

> This version is compliant with GDP v11.4 and above.Please refer to the [input plug-in repository](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/tree/main/input-plugin/logstash-input-google-pubsub) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This version is compliant with Guardium Data Protection v11.4 and above. Please refer to the [input plug-in repository](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/tree/main/input-plugin/logstash-input-google-pubsub) for more information.
```

  Please refer to [Create a Dataset](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/datasets) for more information
4. Create a table
    - Expand the: View actions option and click on Open.
    - In the details panel, click on (+) Create table.
    - On the Create table page, do the following:
Enter Table Name. e.g., “user”.
User can add the fields on click +Add Field button.
    - Click on Create Table button.
Please refer to [Create Table](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/tables) for more information
5. Query A table data. Please refer to [Query Table Data](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/quickstarts/quickstart-cloud-console#query_table_data) for more information

### Permissions and Roles Details

##### Grant Permission Required for log view/ download

User can view and download the generated logs.
Following Identity and Access Management roles required for view and download logs:

* Logs view:
roles/logging.viewer (Logs Viewer)
roles/logging.privateLogViewer (Private Logs Viewer)
* Download logs:
roles/logging.admin (Logging Admin)
roles/logging.viewAccessor (Logs View Accessor)

## 2. Configuration on GCP for Input Plugin

> ### Steps to create Topic in Pub/Sub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a topic in Pub/Sub
```

* Go to the Pub/Sub topics page in the Cloud Console. 

> * Click on Create a topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click ```Create a topic```
```

* In the Topic ID field, provide a unique topic name, for example, MyTopic.

> * Click on Create Topic button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click ```Create Topic```.
```

> ### Steps to create subscription in Pub/Sub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a subscription in Pub/Sub
```

> * Display the menu for the topic created in previous step and click on New subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Display the menu for the topic created in the previous step and click ```New subscription```.
```

* Type a name for the subscription, such as MySub.
* Leave the delivery type as Pull.
* Click on Create button

> ### Steps to create log sink in Pub/Sub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a log sink in Pub/Sub
```

* In the Cloud Console, go to the Logging > Log Router page.

> * Click on Create sink button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click ```Create sink```.
```

* In the Sink details panel, enter the following details:
* Sink name: Provide an identifier for the sink; note that after User create the sink, user can't rename the sink, but can delete it and create a new sink.
* Sink description (optional): Describe the purpose or use case for the sink.
* In the Sink destination panel, select the Pub/Sub topic as sink service and destination.
* Choose logs to include in the sink in the Build inclusion filter panel.

> * User can filter the logs using log name, resource and  severity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can filter the logs by log name, resource, and  severity.
```

* In case of multi-region one need to do the same set of configurations on that region.
Based on the region different configuration file will be used for  Input Plugin

#### Steps to Set destination(TOPIC & SUBSCRIPTION) permissions

To set permissions for log sink to route to its destination, do the following:
* Obtain the sink's writer identity—an email address—from the new sink.
   1. Go to the Log Router page, and select menu  > View sink details.
   2. The writer identity appears in the Sink details panel.
* If user have Owner access to the destination
   1. add the sink's writer identity to topic and give it the Pub/Sub Publisher role and subscriber role.
   2. add the sink's writer identity to subscription and give it the Pub/Sub subscriber role.

### Steps to Create service account credentials
* Go to the Service accounts section of IAM & Admin console.
* Select project and click on Create Service Account.
* Enter a Service account name, such as Bigquery-pubsub.
* Click on Create.
* The owner role is required for the service account, Select the owner role from the drop down menu
* Click Continue. user does not need to grant users access to this service account.

> * Click Create Key. The key is used by logstash input plugin configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click ```Create Key```. The key is used by the Logstash input plug-in configuration file.
```

> * Select JSON and click Create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select JSON and click ```Create```.
```

## 4. Configuring the BigQuery filter in Guardium
The Guardium universal connector is the Guardium entry point for native audit/data_access logs. The Guardium universal connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. Configure Guardium to read the native audit/data_access logs by customizing the BigQuery template.

### Before you begin
* You must have Log Full Details policy enabled on the collector. The detailed steps can be found in step 4 on [this page](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/docs/developing_plugins_gdp.md).
* You must have permission for the S-Tap Management role. The admin user includes this role by default
* Download the [guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip](BigQueryOverPubSubPackage/guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip) plug-in.

### Procedure
1. On the collector, go to Setup > Tools and Views > Configure Universal Connector.
2. Enable the connector if it is disabled before uploading the UC plug-in.

> 3. Click Upload File and select the offline [guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip](BigQueryOverPubSubPackage/guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip) plug-in. After it is uploaded, click OK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click Upload File and select the offline [guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip](BigQueryOverPubSubPackage/guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-ps-bigQuery.zip) plug-in. After it is uploaded, click ```OK```.
```

> 4. Click Upload File and select the key.json file. After it is uploaded, click OK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click ```Upload File``` and select the key.json file. After it is uploaded, click ```OK```.
```

5. Click the Plus sign to open the Connector Configuration dialog box.
6. Type a name in the Connector name field.

> 7. Update the input section to add the details from [pubsub_big_query.conf](pubsub_big_query.conf) file's input part, omitting the keyword "input{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Update the input section to add the details from the [pubsub_big_query.conf](pubsub_big_query.conf) file's input part, omitting the keyword "input{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.
```

> 8. Update the filter section to add the details from [pubsub_big_query.conf](pubsub_big_query.conf) file's filter part, omitting the keyword "filter{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Update the filter section to add the details from the [pubsub_big_query.conf](pubsub_big_query.conf) file's filter part, omitting the keyword "filter{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.
```

> 9. 'type' field should match in input and filter configuration section.This field should be unique for every individual connector added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. The 'type' fields should match in the input and filter configuration sections. This field should be unique for every individual connector added.
```

> 10. Click Save. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Click ```Save```. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.
```

11. After the offline plug-in is installed and the configuration is uploaded and saved in the Guardium machine, restart the Universal Connector using the Disable/Enable button.

## 5. Limitations

> 1. Some fields could not be mapped as no information regarding the same was available in the logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If no information regarding certain fields is available in the logs, those fields will not be mapped. 
```

Reviewer: I actually suggest we delete this limitation altogether, as it is implied in step 10 below.

2. Exception object will be prepared based on severity of the logs.
3. The data model size is limited to 10 GB per table. If you have a 100 GB reservation per project per location, BigQuery BI Engine limits the reservation per table to 10 GB. The rest of the available reservation is used for other tables in the project.
4. BigQuery cannot read the data in parallel if you use gzip compression. Loading compressed JSON data into BigQuery is slower than loading uncompressed data.
5. You cannot include both compressed and uncompressed files in the same load job.
6. JSON data must be newline delimited. Each JSON object must be on a separate line in the file.
7. The maximum size for a gzip file is 4 GB.
8. Log messages have a size limit of 100K bytes

> 9. Audit/Data access log doesn't contains server ip, Default value is set 0.0.0.0 as server IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. The Audit/Data access log doesn't contain a server IP. The default value is set 0.0.0.0 for the server IP.
```

> 10. Some fields could not be mapped as no information regarding the same was available in the logs. Following important fields couldn't be mapped-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. The following important fields cannot be mapped, as there is no information regarding these fields in the logs:
```

>     - Source program : Not available with logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Source program 
```

>     - OS User : Not available with logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - OS User
```

>     - Client HostName : Not available with logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Client HostName 
```

11.  `serverHostName` pattern for BigQuery GCP :
project-id_bigquery.googleapis.com.

> 12. When user tries to Create or Delete Dataset or Table using BigQuery UI options, then fileds like FULL SQL & Objects and Verbs column appear as blank, as for these actions we didn't receive any query from GCP logs. To ignore these actions we can update the inculsion filter as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. When you try to create or delete a data set or table using BigQuery UI options, fields like the FULL SQL & Objects and Verbs column appear blank, because these actions don't receive any query from GCP logs. You can ignore these actions, by updating the inculsion filter:
```

"(resource.type=("bigquery_project") AND protoPayload.authenticationInfo.principalEmail:* AND
(protoPayload.metadata.jobChange.job.jobStatus.jobState = DONE AND -protoPayload.metadata.jobChange.job.jobConfig.queryConfig.statementType = "SCRIPT"))"

> 13. Parser is not supporting queries in which a keyword is used as a table name or column name or in scenarios of nested parameters inside functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. The parser does not support queries in which a keyword is used as a table name or column name, or in scenarios of nested parameters inside functions.
```

> 14. The BigQuery audit log doesn’t include login failed logs, so in Guardium we will not be able to show this in the LOGIN_FAILED report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. The BigQuery audit log doesn’t include login failed logs, so these will not appear in the guardium LOGIN_FAILED report.
```
